Do you just want me to run through the
different sounds? Okay. Um, so yeah, a
simple quack is just
>> and then a lot of times this morning to
grab those ducks attention, I was doing
five to seven quacks in a row.
So yeah, it's just just like music.
>> You're one with the duck.
>> I try to be. I try my best. [music]
>> [music]
>> When most of us sit down today for
Thanksgiving dinner, if we're being
honest, we're not really thinking all
that hard about where [music] the food
on the table actually came from. It came
from the grocery store. And to the
[music] degree that we did think about
where it came from, maybe we shopped the
local [music] freerange organic aisle,
still it came from the supermarket.
But for Steven Reanella, the question of
where his food comes from is almost a
religion. Reanella is a lifelong hunter,
perhaps the country's most famous
hunter, who shares his passion for
eating what he catches through a growing
media empire that includes a Netflix
show and a podcast, both called Meat
Eater.
>> If you're just by yourself and you kill
a moose in September,
>> Yeah.
>> how long can one guy live off that
moose?
um you know, if that's all you're
eating, um you know, probably 3 months.
>> Mhm.
>> He's also written more than a dozen
books, ranging from a history of the
American buffalo to a series of
cookbooks that explain things like how
to gut a caribou or make a wild goose
pastrami. But what really defines
Ranella's work is an argument and an
argument that some might find kind of
counterintuitive that killing animals
can be part of loving [music] nature.
That reverence for the natural world is
intimately bound up in the act of
hunting. [music]
And so I was curious as somebody who
relies [music] exclusively on the
grocery store, what would it be like to
visit Reanella and go on a hunt with him
and then eat what we kill. [music]
From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Bubaro. [music]
This is the Daily. Today,
my hunt with Steven Reinella.
It's Thursday, November 27th,
Thanksgiving Day.
>> Steve, Michael Barbaro.
>> Michael, nice to meet you.
>> Tremendous honor.
>> Mon way.
>> We meet Reinella at the meate eater
headquarters in Bosezeman, Montana.
>> Here, I'll show you around a little bit.
>> He gives us a little tour.
>> We have a a kitchen space.
>> We see his test kitchen.
>> Oh, that's a giant meat grinder. Wow.
his industrialsized
meat freezer.
>> This is like Giannis's elk bones.
>> On the way,
>> should we go to the studio?
>> into his podcast studio, which I would
describe the decor of as extremely
carnivorous.
>> This is a beaver
>> behind you.
>> Yeah. This is like what the whole
country was built on. I mean, you know,
like that the beaver skin trade. Um,
that's a muskox
hide.
>> That's huge.
>> Yeah. It's a sound deadener. These are
these are tan skunks.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. A thing I've always been I pay a
lot of attention to the fur trade. This
right now is the hot ticket item in the
fur trade.
>> Skunk.
>> Yeah. You know why?
>> No.
>> The the hats that Orthodox Jews wear for
for for holidays.
>> Yes. They're very extravagant. They're
beautiful.
>> The hip thing right now, the hip thing
is to have those white to have them made
from those white skunk hairs. I think of
the Orthodox community as being kind of
trend proof, but
>> no, they're not. There's a trend. It's
hot. [laughter]
>> Okay. So, thank you for the tour.
>> Thank you for having us.
>> Of course. Thank you. I appreciate you
coming in, especially coming all this
way to come to me.
>> So, you have had
a really interesting journey in my
estimation to become the person that you
are now. You're kind of an evangelist
for hunting. Champion of hunting as a
way
>> I'm like an like an explainer of
>> Yeah. Okay. you know, explainer of
>> champion of it as a way of connecting
with the land, showing reverence for the
land,
>> and as you've put it, understanding the
connection between human beings and the
natural world.
>> Mhm.
>> You grew up in rural Michigan.
>> That's right.
>> Talk to me a little bit about some of
these formative early hunting
experiences
>> that you have.
>> To do that right, I got to go back one
little generational bit.
My dad was born a long time ago. Like he
fought in World War II, okay? So my dad
was raised by Italian immigrant
grandparents. He was born in the south
side of Chicago. He grew up in a world
very, very removed from rural American
life.
But then when he got home from World War
II, and this is a thing that he was one
of those outdoorsmen that kind of was
born of that experience. They had been
out, you know, for over a year. you'd
been out camping, out hanging out with
guys, wearing wool clothes, and he was
just they just got into it. Then when
they came home, that's just what they
did.
>> There was even a comment a guy a editor
of a sporting magazine had made is like,
"How could you how could you train an
entire generation of men to to shoot and
camp and not expect them
>> to become hunters?" So he became a
hunter like out of that world.
>> I never thought about that.
>> Yeah. Like and so I got it from him.
Like I never decided I never thought,
"Oh, I should become a hunter and
fisherman." It was just what we did. I
did all the like I had all the normal
stuff. I had friends. I liked music.
Alongside it all was like this this like
obsession,
a family obsession with hunting and
fishing.
>> Do you remember an early experience of
hunting that stays with you? Yeah, we
would strike out on bikes with 22s and
go hunt squirrels, but we had so much
woods around and we thought it was like
public, but it was just a We just went
on everybody everybody's land. Um,
>> why hunt a squirrel?
>> Oh, they're great.
>> There's not that much meat.
>> No, there's a lot.
>> There is?
>> Yeah, there's a lot.
>> And what do you do with it?
>> Oh, it's it's it's it's like it's
thinking man's chicken, man. It's like
it's it's the same color. My mom would
there was a real wild game craze back
then. It was like the whole era was like
the cream of mushroom era. So my mom
would take a crockpot and fill it full
of parted out squirrels. So two front
legs, two back legs, and we trim the
saddle.
>> You call it the saddle.
>> It'd be like the loin pieces. You like
take a scissor and run it up the ribs.
>> And so you got like like the the French
call it a saddle of a hair, right? and
you'd put it in a crock pot, fill it
with cream of mushroom soup, and then
turn that crockpot on. And then the
minute you could pick all the meat off,
you'd pick all the meat off.
>> Thinking man's chicken.
>> It
enjoy food and you don't have a set
rigid idea of whatever you kind of like
like meat supposed to be like this. If
you just kind of like like food and like
novel things, most people that do that
like squirrels. They're they're very
good.
>> I had no idea.
>> Yeah. At this stage of your life, are
you eating everything you hunt?
>> Yeah, we ate a lot of stuff. We fried a
lot of stuff. Yeah. You wouldn't have
thrown that would not be a thing like
not a thing. And
>> to hunt and not consume.
>> I remember.
>> Would it be a sin?
>> Yeah. Sin. Like, you know, I was raised
in a Christian household. We wouldn't
have talked about waste in terms of sin.
But I remember one time in the woods, I
remember my old man finding someone had
dumped a bunch of wood ducks that they
hadn't cleaned properly.
>> M
>> in this that they had hunted but not
cleaned.
>> Yep. Garbage bag. It was where everybody
would haul their yard waste. And I
remember my old man finding a a garbage
bag that had a bunch of improperly
cleaned wood ducks. And it was this dude
renting a house down the lake from us.
And I remember my dad went banged on his
door and had words with him.
It was like
>> well just he he would have seen that as
so problematic. Why
>> wasteful?
Like that was the thing I I was trying
to explain.
>> These animals lived and died for nothing
if no one was going to
>> it was like you didn't waste stuff, man.
>> After being immersed in this
environment, did you just say to
yourself, I want to grow up and be a
hunter?
>> Oh yeah. Well, no, because I just was I
never thought I never thought about it.
I I never stopped for a minute and then
restarted.
you just were 100.
>> It just like it was never like I want to
get into this. It was just that was just
the main thing. Always the main thing.
>> Was it like the most romantic thing a
kid could possibly be doing? I mean,
you've explained that it's just kind of
a default fact [snorts] of life for you,
>> but it sounds like it even at a young
age is bringing you tremendous pleasure.
>> Yeah. Identity became like an identity.
And then I fell and the thing too is
through that I I fell in love with the
history of it.
>> And how did you know the history of it?
Like you're reading
>> that's what I got into like I would just
I would read that's what I would read.
That's the main thing I would read.
>> What was the seminal childhood book of
hunting?
>> Trap lines north. I would check it out
at the library and then I'd recheck it
out and I'd recheck it out. If you went
to that book now and found that in the
Twin Lake Library, it dude if you went
it'd be just my name again and again
like on that book.
>> Just what's what stands out from that
book. was like
>> and just just briefly describe it.
>> Okay. I again all that hunting and stuff
what I wanted to do was I wanted to like
hunt and trap for a living. So like you
know people know all these names. Daniel
Boone for instance like
>> people think of Boone as an explorer a
pioneer like he wouldn't have thought of
himself that way. Boon was a market
hunter. Boon hunted for the markets. He
trapped beaver. He trapped otter. He tra
he hunted bears for the bear grease
market. bear oil, bare bacon market,
deer skin trade. Like that's what Boon
did. Like Boon did that for a living.
All the things he's known for came out
of the fact that that's what he did for
a living. So as I got into it, I would
just read about people that that's what
they would do. And that would generally
force you backward in time. So I just
read about trappers and I read about
hunters, commercial hunters,
professional hunters, because that's
what I wanted to be.
So my understanding is that even as
you're aspiring to the hunting life,
>> you
see that life early on as at odds with
the whole idea of environmentalism. Yep.
>> And conservation. At that time being in
high school, I I I confused in the
environmental movement with the animal
rights movement.
>> Of course,
>> which upset you because
>> Well, it upset me because the the in the
animal rights movement was at that time
working very aggressively
to ban hunting practices and they were
having success at it.
>> You thought they were the enemy?
>> Yeah, 100%.
>> Because they were going to prevent you.
>> They were going to destroy our lifestyle
from
>> the environmentalists were going to
destroy our lifestyle.
as a 17-year-old,
right? We started a group.
>> You started
>> our group was hate hunters against
teenage environmentalists. And we even
like won the can drive.
>> Hunters against teenage
environmentalist.
>> I I'll show you the shirt. I still have
the shirt. I somehow
um because you couldn't Google stuff, I
guess. I somehow got it. My buddies and
I got it. Whatever. We got it that it
was that that was the environmental
movement was the animal rights movement.
We conflated them.
>> But um at the same time, remember
there's this big woods we always would
hunt.
>> Mhm.
>> They were going to go in and log this
woods and these guys came in and marked
all the wildlife trees with an orange
ring. I remember me and my brother Danny
sitting there matching paint. Like I'm
not kidding you, matching paint to get
that color and then putting it in a
sprayer and going out and marking
shitloads of extra trees.
>> Why? cuz we didn't want them to cut the
trees down, but we're like, "We're going
to save the trees, but we hate envir
[laughter]
idiots."
>> You obviously
get to a place where you feel that
hunting and environmentalism, hunting
and conservationism are actually really
wedded. Tell me that story, how it is,
>> how you go from a kid wearing the hate
t-shirts to suddenly seeing that hunting
is environmentalism, which is ultimately
where you land. So what is it that
happens?
>> Probably the mo the most impactful thing
that happened well handful of things.
The buddies I grew up around, okay, guys
that would have laughed at hate. We we
kind of didn't know what you could do
for a living. So a lot of the people in
my circle were like, I'm going to be a
wildlife biologist because then you
could be outside or I'm going to be a
game warden. So they start going into
wildlife and fisheries management. And
imagine like the the the awakening
and you all of a sudden start
understanding ecology,
>> right? And and then and then like
conservation history out of that. One of
my peers that goes into wildlife
management like introduced me for
instance to Aldo Leopolds the Sand
County almanac which is probably which
not probably which is the most
influential
conservation environmental text.
>> It's kind of a cornerstone of the
movement. Why it's the most influential
is because it was written for rednecks
like what we were. It was written by a
guy who knew what it was to chop a tree
down, who knew what it was to raise a
crop, who knew what it was to hunt deer,
who knew what it was to kill something
and then regret killing it. Like he was
talking to his people and he was saying
there's a thing. It's ecology. We need
to know about it.
>> Like it's our history. We're no one's
going to save this but us. No one
understands it and loves it like us. So
it was like
>> so he assigns a special place to the
hunter.
>> Yes.
>> This role of
stewarding the land.
>> Yeah. He for many many people and this
is an old book by this time.
He introduces this idea of the hunter
conservationist. And he introduces this
idea that's like
>> the days of us being conquerors
and destroyers
had to end,
right? It had to end,
>> right? Like Daniel Boone is known and
you read about this as somebody who may
not have meant to but ends up laying
waste to entire
>> He killed what he loved
>> species. He killed what he loved and he
would have told you the same thing.
That's why he always had to go more and
more west. He had to go more and more
west to get out of the areas that him
and his peers had decimated.
>> And Leopold is saying no.
>> We'd always had in this country like you
have like a preservation mindset as
exemplified by a guy named John Mir.
Like John Mir would look at a beautiful
landscape and he'd say no one should
touch this. You can look at it for a
minute but don't touch it. Humans are
evil. Preserve it.
Rose, the Roosevelt, El Leupold
presented a conservation viewpoint that
would be that man
is going to engage with the natural
world. We are going to be part of the
natural world. We have to be.
>> Are we going to do this in a way that
strengthens the integrity of these
natural systems where we're going to
interact or are we going to interact in
a way that destroys these systems? Elder
Leopold was speaking to the people that
are going to interact with the systems.
He he introduced people to the idea of
ecology that that natural systems
rely on all of their parts, right? He
was like, "It's time for us to treat
this as a thing we love or else we're
going to lose it." And so reading that,
it was
>> You identify with it
>> 100%, man. Cuz he like understood people
that were out on the land. Like reading
this book hit like a I didn't even
appreciate it till way later in life
like how much that hit because I
understood what he was talking about.
And then I read many books of people
that were very uneasy with hunting like
Barry Lopez Artic Dreams had a huge
impact on me. Barry Lopez is very uneasy
with hunting.
>> Why?
>> Obvious.
You're taking life. He's like a Zen
Buddhist. Um
>> you're taking life.
>> That brings me to
what you become. Mhm.
>> At this stage of your life, you're in
college, right?
>> Mhm.
>> After college,
>> you get an MFA.
>> Yeah.
>> And you start writing.
>> You start writing.
>> But then I knew I was going to be a
writer,
>> right? So, you're not just going to be a
hunter. You're going to be a hunter who
writes about
>> cuz tra cuz I was going to be a trapper.
But fur prices were so bad that you it
was just was untenable. But I had a
knack for writing.
>> I thought I was going to round out my
income as a trapper by writing howto
instructional trapping articles. So,
>> it's a great plan.
>> Yeah. I was going to write art I was
going to write like, you know, late
season muskrat techniques [laughter]
through for through the ice. Right.
>> Well, I want to talk about I want to
talk about
>> that's how I got that's how I like began
to to write. But by the time I was
finishing college, I wanted to be like a
writer writer.
>> Yeah. Well, I want to talk about your
writing because
you do a lot of really interesting
writing that's very much embodies this
lifestyle you have. You you write a book
about recreating this famous epic 45
course meal from a famous French chef
using ingredients that you have
scavenged
>> out in the world including of course
wild game. You write a book about
buffalo and then you write what I
consider to be your manifesto
>> meat eater and
I think it's beautifully written
>> and you describe for people like me who
aren't of and from the hunting world
>> Yeah.
>> and the hunting life
>> what is so visceral and romantic and
also at times
complicated
>> difficult about hunting.
>> Yeah. And there's a passage I want to
read.
>> Let me read it to you. Let's hear it.
[snorts]
>> Quote, "I was hungry in the wilderness
and here came a few tons worth of
caribou 50 yards out and closing fast.
In a moment like that, there's no time
for emotional doawling. It's time for
unairring judgment. It is a time for
speed, both mental and physical. It is a
time for action and precision and
discipline. It is a time to do what
millions of years worth of evolution
built us to do. And in the act of doing
it, you experience the unconfused purity
of being a human predator, stripped of
everything that is non-essential.
In that moment of impending violence and
death, you are gifted a beautiful
glimpse of life. I want you to explain
this idea because this is the part of
the hunting life that I think those of
us who don't hunt with any regularity
>> probably struggle to understand.
>> Yes.
>> Can you just explain that?
>> Yeah. Well, I have had the the the good
fortune of um
taking many many people out on their
first hunting trip where they've gotten
their first animal almost to the person.
It's cathartic.
People cry. It's a thing that happens.
If someone kills their first deer as an
adult, they cry.
No regret.
Never regret. But it's like it's like
something is like clicking with them
about cycles of life and death. I never
had that because I started so young. I
deliberately started my kids very young
to where nothing would surprise them. I
later thought about that more when I had
a chance now and then to hunt out with
like indigenous hunters and gatherers in
other parts of the world. You know
what's absent
like in their hunting practices? Remorse
absent.
>> And these are people who for generations
have hunted and fished for their living.
There is like it is joy and it is a lack
of remorse. You feel honor but like no
remorse. It is taking life to them is
life.
>> It just is. It's like I continue on.
>> Is that the life you're describing when
you say you're gifted a glimpse of life?
>> Yeah. It's like that's how you stay
alive. Like that is that's the
difference. And for like ancestral
humans, for wildlife, there's like death
is you not killing.
>> Death is you not killing.
>> Yeah. Cuz you starve, right? Not me now,
but I'm just talking about like why do
you not see signs of remorse or
compassion in wildlife? Why do you not
see signs of remorse or regret with
indigenous hunter gatherers? Because
they've they've always seen with
incredible clarity
that that taking of life, that killing
gives life
>> gives life to them and their families.
That relates to something else you write
in this book I consider to be your your
manifesto.
Why do you think
so many people
feel so disconnected from this thing
that's so visceral for you? Do you think
it's just as simple
>> as the fact that
>> we now all rely on vast industrial,
>> you know, slaughterhouse operations to
get our food because we all go into
grocery stores and
>> Yeah. you know, buy our food. You wrote
you write about this. You you say people
have no problem
>> eating their food. That proxy
executioners. I'll never forget that
phrase.
>> Hypocrisy K. Like the thing I always
think about if I'm weighing the morality
of this or if I'm if I'm like analyzing
my world and analyzing my food, it's
like you ask yourself a simple question.
as much as is possible. Put yourself in
the shoes of an of an animal that will
ultimately be consumed by a human. Would
you rather jump into and live the life
of something born on a slab of concrete
>> and like fed every day and optimized?
Yeah.
>> And like your your inputs are optimized
for your outputs and it's like a done
deal. When you hit 1,100 lb, you're
dead, right?
Or imagine the life of a thing that is
unaware
like unaware and then one day just pow
lights out in the woods. Man, that wild
life for me as a human trying to
understand it like that wild life is
more beautiful and that wild life is
better. What you're saying is there's
virtue in consuming an animal that has
lived a rich and full and varied
life on their own terms.
>> I believe so. There is a tremendous
beauty in wildlife living in wild
places. We culturally honor it. We build
vacations around going to look at it. So
when you're eating a thing that lived
that life that lived that like beautiful
wild free life, it's just better. It's
just different,
>> right? It's the ultimate freerange food.
>> Yeah. It's like nothing to regret here,
man. It was a It's a beautiful place.
It's a beautiful animal. It lived a
beautiful life and now it's supporting
us and we're going to support its
environment so it can make more. It's
just it's tidy.
In writing about hunting, you you
deliver an interesting and pretty stark
judgment of those who would judge
hunters like you. You write
to abhore hunting is to
>> to hate something about yourself.
>> You write to abhore hunting is to hate
the place of which you came, which is
akin to hating yourself in some distant
abstract way.
>> Yeah. So, human history on our continent
goes back somewhere around 20,000 years.
Those people were all hunters. They
hunted for a living. They were hunters.
Here on this continent, that only ended
a couple hundred years ago. That's
what's always had hap. That's how people
in what is now North America survived.
They hunted. If they didn't hunt, they
died. They were hunters. No matter how
you define, like if you brought someone
from outer space and they could come
down and sort of get offer you like a
little bit of an analysis of hunters and
they were to look at the the scope of
human history and you're say, "Hey,
explain humans to me." The the out of
space person would look and be like,
"Uh, man, they're mostly hunters." Well,
not lately, [laughter]
right? That's what that's like what we
did. So, how is it how could it be that
we've like shed all that? We haven't
shed all that. So when I say that
someone like abhores the practice, it's
like, dude,
look at yourself. Where are your eyes?
They're centered on your head. So you
have really good depth perception. Why
do you have K-9 teeth?
>> It's like you're not that far away from
this.
>> But the abhoring,
>> that's real what you're identifying
here. There's there's a cultural chasm,
right,
>> between the way you grew up
>> and the way so many of us now see
ourselves and how we see our
relationship to food. And
>> why is it the case that
>> this thing that is so essential to you
and that is at the heart of how you
identify yourself
has become so rare?
>> I could I could answer that in 10 ways.
Let me hit you with one. Sure. Just to
consider. If every American
tomorrow went out and killed a deer,
>> it'd be a real problem.
>> We'd have a 200 million deer deficit.
So, it just became
um besides
human will, besides what we want to do,
it became impossible. It became
impossible. It had to be like if you
look at it like ecologically, it had to
be as the population exploded and as we
destroyed all of our landscape or much
of our landscape, it had to be that we
quit. That was the whole point of the
agricultural revolutions allows people
to live close together. There was a
reason why in like in Native America,
the land had a carrying capacity.
Human populations in in like historic
North America were the size they were
because that's how much you could fit
there. Mhm.
>> That's how much you could extract from
wildlife resources. And then we discover
other ways. And so you can't anymore.
You can't anymore. And even like a thing
I've always felt was everybody can't do
it. But I wanted everyone to understand
it.
>> So like many people in this world, you
simply want to be understood.
>> Yeah. I want to be understood. And also
you want people to recognize, this is
the thing we haven't touched on yet. As
I learned conservation history and I
learned the role, the outsized role
of hunters [snorts]
in the conservation story,
I also felt like we deserve more credit
than we get.
>> Right? And I was like, you should thank
me now that I know what I know and you
don't know. I know that you owe me a
thanks. you owe me a debt of gratitude
because by buying my hunting licenses
and participating in the things I
participated in like we saved American
wildlife,
>> right? Cuz I didn't really know this or
understand [snorts] it very well until I
read your book and read many of your
writings, although I should have known
this that hunting licenses contribute
directly to the funding for American
conservation.
>> Yeah.
>> Steve, you've written many, many poetic
passages about the act of hunting. Mhm.
>> And [snorts] I want to, as we wrap up
our conversation,
return to one of those writings. And if
you don't mind,
>> I'm going to ask you to read this.
>> Oh, wow.
>> You got a great reading voice.
>> I've learned to see the earth as a thing
that breathes and ws and brings forth
life.
I see these revelations as a form of
grace and art, as beautiful as the
things we humans attempt to capture
through music, dance, and poetry. And as
I've become aware of this, it has become
increasingly difficult for me to see
hunting as alltogether outside of
civilization.
Maybe stalking the woods is as vital to
the human condition as playing music or
putting words to paper. Maybe hunting
has as much of a claim on our civilized
selves as anything else.
>> It's really beautiful.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> It makes me want to go hunting with you.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yes. Well, I want to talk about this
tomorrow morning very early.
You are taking me and my colleagues out
hunting.
>> Mhm.
>> And just to explain because this
episode's going to be running on
Thanksgiving.
>> We're not going to be hunting turkeys.
>> No.
>> You were very clear about that. You can
hunt turkeys here in the fall, but but
[snorts] we hunt them in the spring.
>> Mhm.
>> It's just like almost like culturally in
the spring during their breeding season,
we hunt just the males and you hunt the
males when the males are out gobbling
and you can call them in and just very
selective. Just get the males. In the
fall, guys will hunt you can hunt them,
but you you you risk killing the
females. I I don't like I I've
never killed a turkey in the fall. I've
killed many many turkeys in the spring.
I don't hunt them in the fall. So,
[snorts] uh what's also fun I love this
little fact. The pilgrims,
they're probably eating fowl water fowl
migratory waterfall. 100% deer
probably seafood most certainly geese.
If you look at all if you look at all
the journals and stuff, they were eating
migratory waterfall. [music]
So, we're we're hunting duck.
>> Yeah, you will see ducks for sure. Mhm.
>> And you will eat [music] ducks.
>> I promise.
>> We'll eat them together.
>> H.
>> All right. Well, we'll [music] see you
at dawn. Till then, thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Appreciate it. [music]
[music]
Oh yeah.
>> Wait, you guys got coffee already?
>> Room.
>> Oh, the room coffee.
>> Yep, there he is.
>> Oh, man. Is it nice out?
Prepare for the worst. Embrace the 50° 5
a.m. weather. The next morning, Steve
picks us up in his very large pickup
truck.
>> You are the picture of promptness
>> to drive us out to the duck hunting
spot.
>> Unseasonably warm and windy.
>> Only question is, will the ducks notice?
>> They might get down to an area like this
and the weather is suitable
and then they'll just hang.
>> So, doesn't it seem like duck hang
weather?
>> Yeah, very duck hanging weather.
>> Why would you flee this weather? Yeah.
He's like, "Dude, you should go back
north. It's too hot."
>> Okay. So, can you just just explain
where we're going? You picked us up at
our hotel in downtown Bosezeman.
>> Yep.
>> I have a buddy. There's a property over
here owned by a guy named Mark Beers.
>> Okay.
>> He's a friend of mine. He's a big
wetlands duck conservation
guy. That's his thing.
the way he like you know they run cattle
out there at a farm out there but he is
like his manage his land management is
wildlife first ducks first
>> why did you want us to be hunting at
this hour cuz it's 5:20 in the morning I
mean
>> so there's the main movement that ducks
will make like all day the big movement
that ducks will make is at daybreak
sometime in the morning
>> in the cold gray light of dawn on
to quote Robert O'Kee Jr. They like they
they like to float. They like to fly
then. So that's why you want to be out
there. And the other thing is it's just
like there's like a tradition component.
Like even if someone said if they're
like, man, they're not really going to
fly till 9:00 a.m.
>> Right.
>> You just kind of would feel like uh
>> lazy bones.
>> Yeah. You'd feel like a real loser. It's
just like like I like hunting turkeys
almost more than anything.
And we kill a lot of turkeys between
10:00 and noon, but it's a sin to not be
out there at daybreak.
[music]
And I suppose this is old hat for you,
but is this drive and the whole getting
there process still filled with a lot of
excitement for you every time you hunt?
>> Oh, yeah. No, it it's always it's um
yeah, there's always an anticipation of
what's going to happen or there's always
like an element of mystery.
It's like asking a it's like asking a
question,
you know. One time I was writing
something about fishing. I was saying
like every cast is like you're asking a
question, you know, waiting for the
answer. So, um
>> All right. So, we're now off the main
road.
>> Yep. And we're we're kind of out in an
agricultural area and this is ground out
here that won't get developed ever.
>> So we're just pulling out into the tall
grass here.
>> Yeah. And like and there's crop fields
all around us, but we're kind of down in
the we're down in the channels of water
>> at this point. We're about 25 minutes
outside of Bosezeman and it's so dark we
can honestly be anywhere.
>> It's quite beautiful just to see this
all on the car lights.
>> Yeah. And it's fun when you go somewhere
new or you don't know where you're at in
the dark and as it gets light out you
get to be like, "Oh,
>> I'm completely disoriented."
>> We pull into what looks like a grassy
meadow. And we all get out and then we
meet Max Barta.
>> Steve, how's it going?
>> Good. Good. Good.
>> This is Max. Did you meet everybody?
>> Max works with Steve on his TV show as a
videographer. But he's here this morning
because he's a very good duck hunter who
brought all his gear with him along with
a very important member of our hunting
party. His dog Ruby.
>> Yeah, this is Ruby.
>> Hey, you're fine.
>> And then suddenly it's very busy. Max
and Steve are unloading a ton of stuff
from their trucks.
>> Are you going to wear your Steve?
>> Yeah, I'm fine.
>> Okay.
>> If you want to get real serious, I'll
give you a big headlamp. I mean, wow.
Look at this thing. It's like a brass
lamp affixed to a hunting cap.
>> It's called raccoon light.
>> And of course, they're gathering their
guns and their ammo.
>> This is your rifle.
>> Well, it's shotgun. Can't hunt ducks
with a rifle.
>> Now, just to be clear, I am here
observing. I'm not going to be shooting
a gun today. [music]
>> And then even like all all this stuff is
regulated. So, this is called a 12 gauge
shotgun. When hunting migratory
waterfall, you have to put a thing in
here called a plug that prevents you
from putting more than two shells in the
magazine.
>> So, this is a pile of plastic decoy
ducks. Yeah,
>> there are a shocking number of duck
decoys and goose decoys. Use them to
fool real ducks, which is kind of crazy
to me. I always make the joke whenever
like the ducks don't come in um I always
say, "Well, yeah, we got a pile of
plastic out there and poor human beings
trying to hide themselves, you know,
like no wonder they're not coming in."
[music]
>> They're like, "That don't look good."
>> Nope. So,
>> and pretty soon we're all walking out
into the grassy darkness.
>> Do you want one of us to carry this
around?
>> Yeah. You can just grab them by the
handles. Yep. Got one like that. Morning
weight.
>> Yeah. So, we're setting up for the
water.
>> How deep is it? It's like just below my
knees here.
>> So, what we're doing is we're putting
decoys here to show that there's ducks
congregating here.
>> But then, but then the main pocket you
want them to be in is right there. And
that puts them more out in front of you.
>> So, basically right here in this now in
this vacuum is where you hope the duck
is going to come later.
>> Yeah. like kind of a good landing area
right where you just cross that rock.
>> Yeah, right right across that rock.
>> I got it.
>> So,
>> it's kind of cool to now see them spread
about.
Suddenly looks like there's a lot of
ducks in this pond even though they're
fake.
>> Yeah.
>> See, can you just describe this uh
structure that we're going to be going
into?
>> Yep. This is a very nice hunting blind.
Um,
>> it's a it's like a it's like a very
elaborately camouflaged shoe box.
>> Yeah, it's got a bench to sit in. It's
got a little gun rack and then it's
[__] just like a Yeah, a shoe box big
enough to hold seven people or ideally
five people packed very tightly.
>> We're challenging the space,
>> but it's big. mainly it provides a
structure that you can affix all this
vegetation to.
>> Yeah. And it is like thoroughly layered
with
>> hay brush.
>> It's meant to blend in. Yeah.
>> If you didn't know it was here, it
wouldn't be here.
>> Ducks can see color. They're they can be
very hard to trick. And so this just
allows you to stay concealed.
>> That's a dog box.
>> Yeah. And that's going to make you
entirely
>> That's for his dog. that can't
>> that's your dog is terrified.
>> Yeah, she loves it. Like it's crazy. If
I don't bring her, she is so teed off at
me. Just like So we pile into this duck
blind. You mind if I go in?
>> No. No.
>> I'll be down on this.
>> Steve plants himself at the far end of
the blind and Max is at the other end.
>> So you're
>> What's that?
>> See that's loaded now.
>> Mhm. Yeah, this is the safe.
>> Do we have everybody within earshot?
>> Yeah, I think so.
>> Because you're not shooting, there's not
a lot to know about, but I really can't
think of any way you'd get shot. Uh,
don't
>> don't get shot.
>> Yeah, don't stand up unexpectedly. You
don't have shotguns, so you can't really
do any damage. Yeah, never mind. I can't
picture a world in which you'd get hurt.
Don't jump out of the blind, but you
can't because Max is on the end. There's
nothing to do.
>> [music]
>> And after all the work of placing the
decoys and getting the dog into the dog
blind and all of us humans and our gear
into the duck blind, there's nothing to
do but wait. So, it's now about 6:30
a.m. and first light is emerging and the
silhouettes of the mountains
now appear with the sun behind them.
Oh, and that's our first actual real
bird sighting just flew right over us. I
think that was a goose.
Wait, what was that?
Oh, that was me blowing my call. Duck.
That's your duck call.
>> Max has with him a variety of duck
calls. These little wind instruments
that are hanging around his neck.
>> Do you see that duck swimming there?
Yeah, that's a Drake Mal. He blows them
occasionally to attract the birds.
>> He's the one that's making this noise
right now.
>> And he's really, really good at it.
>> Hey, Max, what was legal light?
>> 42.
>> Oh, we got two minutes.
>> Now that we're settled, Steve and Max
become very conscious of the time.
>> You can legally hunt ducks 30 minutes
before legal sunrise.
There's a dog.
That's great.
>> And Max lets Steve know officially
>> good to go.
>> Yep.
>> That they're good to go.
>> Here comes some ducks right here.
>> And
Steve shoots a bird.
>> Right out of the sky. It all happens so
fast.
You just shot and killed the very first
duck you saw of the morning.
>> No, no, we saw a lot of ducks this
morning.
>> No, you just
>> That was the first duck at legal light
>> and you hit it.
>> Um, yep, we hit one.
The dog returns to the blind with the
duck in its mouth.
>> That's the most efficient thing I've
ever seen.
>> Ruby kennel.
>> Max tucks the duck onto a little shelf
in front of us. And right away, Steve
starts to spot more and more birds
flying overhead.
>> Look at all those ducks. What are those?
>> And the rest of the morning proceeds
just like that. There are these very
long periods of silence,
some hits
and
>> uhhuh
>> some misses.
>> Know, you know those people that make
those rugs and they put an imperfection
in there so that it's not insulting to
God, you know,
>> like Max has this little thing where
he'll do a miss now and then.
>> What was that?
>> You making fun of me cuz I missed.
>> No, he's calling you godlike. Oh,
>> and we're just kind of hanging out
together. Well, no. He doesn't want to
seem pompous to God in the eyes of God.
So, he misses nothing.
>> Inside this incredibly tiny duck blind
>> in the middle of this gorgeous grassy
wetland.
>> As they better understand bird vision,
there's this idea that iridesence
is like glowing neon. that this in their
vision is like, [snorts]
you [laughter] know, like very they're
very tuned into that iridescence.
>> And I start to feel this camaraderie.
We're all now in league together.
>> And then every so often, Max and Steve
become extremely focused once again on
the sky.
Everyone gets serious.
>> Right side, right side, right side.
And then
another duck is down.
>> Good girl.
>> Max returns to the blind with the bird
>> and he holds it out to me.
>> Yeah, Michael. Wow. Grab it. He's very
pretty. Yeah, you can just grab him like
this. Grab him. He's a little wet, but
>> Wow. I've never held a a duck in my
hands before. Living or dead?
>> Wow.
>> He's got so many different colors on
him, too. Like
>> he's It's still warm. Yeah. [music]
I'm holding this still warm duck with
his
beautiful feathers. Dark green, dark
blue. It's kind of white fringed [music]
at the edges.
Steve,
I'm I'm feeling the things [music] now.
>> What are you feeling?
>> I'm feeling all the things.
>> Oh, really?
>> I mean,
>> you feel something.
>> This creature in my hands that was alive
10 seconds ago and is now [music] still
warm. And
I'm feeling I'm feeling all the feelings
that you you write about. It's like it's
beautiful. It's sad. It's
[laughter]
>> Do you feel uh like regret?
>> Do I feel regret?
>> Like you are you like, "Man, we
shouldn't have done that."
>> No, that's not that's not the first duck
swarming us.
>> That's not the feeling I have.
I just feel connected to this thing.
That's what I feel. I feel connected to
it in a way that's kind of hard to
explain.
>> Like my daughter, she'll want to lay
them a certain way. She kind of smooths
them out. Wow.
[music]
I feel like this is changing my
relationship to the sky. Just like
>> I'm just like scanning the sky looking
for any sign of wings
cuz they come so quickly.
By 9:00 a.m., there is a row of eight
birds lined up inside this duck blind.
>> Can I stand up, Steve?
>> Yeah, we're done.
>> And Steve calls it. We're done.
>> So, that's it.
>> Yep.
>> We're done. Eight ducks. 2 hours.
>> Is that what it was?
>> Yeah.
>> After the break, our hunting expedition
concludes in Steve's kitchen. [music]
>> [music]
>> Okay, so we're on our way to Steve's
where the ducks await us and we're going
to pluck them, butcher them, eat them.
Okay.
We're here. There's no question this is
Steve's house because there's a
beautiful set of antlers hanging over
the garage. I think it's actually a full
skull. It's a huge full skull with
antlers just like the meat eater logo.
And a lot more antlers as we approach
the front door. Oh, the door's open.
Literally open door, which is very
welcoming.
Come on in.
>> Hi there.
>> Not up there anymore.
>> The whole family's here.
>> So, we arrive at Steve's house.
>> Okay. I'm Michael.
>> Hi, Michael. I'm Katie.
>> And we meet his wife, his three kids,
plus their friends.
>> Say hi.
>> Hi.
>> Hey. Well, go introduce yourself.
Introduce your friends.
>> Hi, everybody.
>> We'll go this way to start.
>> Okay.
>> You want to wear Do you want latex
gloves? You good?
>> I think I think I'm okay just doing it
with my bare hands. Get the bear in.
>> So, we're in your
>> in the garage. We could do it inside,
but we'll do it out here.
>> That makes sense to do it in the garage.
So, when you butcher, you put your
outside here in the garage.
>> Usually inside sometimes. Well, stuff
with feathers out here.
>> So, here are four ducks.
>> Yep. You want to see how to do it?
>> Yeah, I would like you to show me.
>> Okay. So,
>> so you're just grabbing all the feathers
on the chest and just pretty gently
ripping them off.
>> See, those are those could be teeth
marks from the dog or pellet.
Why does it feel like you're so my my
plucking is so insufficient?
>> Oh, it's a learned thing.
>> It's like it's like blowing on a call.
Like the [music] first time sucks and
you get better and better at it.
>> All right. I uh I think I'm ready to
face your judgment.
>> You're not close yet.
>> Like keep going. But
>> yeah, in the end in the end you'll get
it where you can you just kind of go
like this.
You don't need to do the back. Okay.
>> Unless you want a whole roster to bring
home.
>> Can you take duck interstate?
>> Yeah. Well, you got you got to decide
like I would give you this one cuz this
one's perfect. So, we would pluck this,
leave a fully feathered wing, and you
can walk right on the plane with it. You
don't even need to check it. They might
detect an organic mass as they call it
in TSA land, [music] but you're not
there's no problem. You would just be
like, "No, I have a frozen I have frozen
food
>> and you're fine." if you'd like this to
bring [music] home cuz that's a perfect
spasm. Look at that thing.
>> It's beautiful.
>> Looks like something out of Christmas
Carol, don't it?
>> Yes, it does.
>> Yeah.
>> With just a couple of pellet marks.
>> Mhm.
>> I think I'm getting the neck of my butt
thumb movement.
>> No, you're looking good now.
>> So, that's what you're after. [music]
And we can even clean that up more with
a blowtorrch. But
>> So, that's with a blowtorrch.
So, just take this very from a distance.
Burn those little hairs off.
>> Mhm.
>> Is this the right distance?
>> Just Just enough where you watch them
just get zapped.
>> All right. Let me go get the top.
>> Is this uh
>> Yep. Just real light. Don't cook it.
>> Yeah. You're doing good.
>> No. When we wash them, they'll look real
good.
Did not expect to be using a blow torch.
>> Okay. See this?
See this breast bone?
>> Mhm.
>> Come in like that.
Then you know when you see chicken
tenders on a menu and kids want to order
them.
>> Mhm.
>> That's that that's a duck tender.
>> Oh, that's that kind of classic duck
fat.
>> See, that's that's good stuff.
>> Okay. Good.
>> Yeah. Head to the kitchen.
>> Yep.
>> And then we move from the garage into
the kitchen there. So
>> you kind of have an indoor kitchen
[music] and an outdoor kitchen.
>> Yeah. And that that's nice cuz it's
covered now. And winter [music] is long
>> where Steve has been preparing this wild
game feast.
>> Using every imaginable [music] cooking
method. He is using a smoker.
>> Oh, dude. That's overdone.
>> Ah, damn it. Apparently, we've
overcooked the turkey.
>> The wild turkey as is Thanksgiving
tradition.
>> Yes. Yes. Totally true.
>> He's using an open fire.
>> That's like that sousie goose.
>> And then you're putting it on a rack
>> just to like crisp it up.
>> Put on top of an open This is a rack on
an open fire.
>> Yep. [music] He's cooking it on a fire.
>> And one by one, these dishes emerge.
There's black bear that he hunted in
Alaska. [music] There's wild turkey and
Canadian goose from a hunting trip with
his kids. [music] And of course the
duck.
>> Like the best way to get it the skin
crisp.
>> This is the duck skin.
>> Yep.
>> Is to put it as soon as you [music]
start the burner. So
put them on there. Now and and don't
heat don't preheat it. [music] Like lay
them on there.
>> Okay. I'm going to put the skin down.
>> Skin down. You know what I'm saying?
>> Mhm. [music] Like if you put it on there
when it's hot, it does it doesn't work.
It doesn't get as crispy and it like
instantly [music]
like puckers up.
Then what you want to do Oh, from there
>> in the oven.
>> Flip it and then into the oven. 400
>> Outside for a quick second.
>> Is this the time to tell you how anxious
I get about whether I'm overcooking
meats?
>> Oh, the duck.
>> The duck.
>> Not long. Okay,
>> we'll eat that real rare. The black bear
that I took out that has the bone
sticking out of the end that and I've
had trinosis from black bear that
>> that's good to know.
>> You have to cook the same way like in
the old days you had to cook pork really
well.
>> Yeah,
>> that was cooked in the oven for I saw
him with the thermometer checking it.
>> Oh, it's like it's like 20° above
>> Okay.
>> what it needs to be. I I learned that.
>> So, now the duck is out of the oven.
Pretty
remarkable that that thing was flying
above our heads.
>> That's all it
>> four or five hours ago.
>> And then we sit down at Steve's dining
room table and all of this meat that
Steve has been cooking
>> is laid out in front of us.
>> This is a remarkable bounty you've
prepared for us. This table is filled
with meat.
>> It's light on veggies. But what we have
[laughter]
>> I would say it's very light on
>> what we have here. Try one of these.
These are good. So we grow carrots and
then pickle them.
>> All right. All right. What should where
should we start?
>> I ruined turkey.
>> So, we'll start with the worst.
>> We'll start with the ruined turkey.
[laughter] Terrible.
>> It's delicious.
>> Neutral.
>> Mhm.
>> Very dry.
>> I think my mother's done worse than
this. So, this is the bear.
>> This is black bear. Um
>> I can definitely say I've never eaten
bear before.
>> Yeah.
>> Tastes like
>> You'd never know it was bear me.
>> Tastes like lamb or beef.
>> Yeah. It's lamb like
>> Mhm.
>> It's just funny about you never you'd
never flag it as unusual.
>> Mhm.
Now
>> is the sousied and grilled.
>> Yeah, that's Canada goose.
>> It's good.
>> And you can dress it up all kinds of
ways.
>> It's really tender.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm I'm very excited to try the duck.
>> Mhm.
>> I got cold. [laughter]
>> Got cold.
>> It took a long time. Nothing wrong with
cold duck.
>> Looks great. It's fatty.
Juicy.
>> Cold.
I'm just to take it back to our original
conversation. It's extremely gratifying
to consume
food that you yourself have
>> participated in hunting, defeathering,
butchering, cooking. It's like 100%
start to finish
your food.
>> You're the only person ever touched it.
[music] You ever think about that? No
one's ever touched that
>> except us. Yeah. First person. Only
person.
>> Yeah. It's like I feel a certain level
of possessiveness over this food that I
don't think I've ever felt before. It's
not anonymous.
>> Yeah. You know, then you get into
freezer freezer hoarding and stuff like
that
where you get really weird or weird
[music] to your family about it and
everything.
>> There's a there's a thing that happens.
[laughter]
Just talk to my wife about sometimes.
Steve, I just wanted to thank you for
the time you spent with us, for the
lessons you've taught us, and express my
gratitude. Happy Thanksgiving.
>> Oh, happy Thanksgiving to [music] you.
Appreciate it. It
>> was a really special day for us.
>> Thank you very much.
>> A really profound experience.
>> Next time you see [music] a goose flying
by, you'd be like, "Now that
>> is what that tastes like."
>> When you see a goose in a golf course,
you like, "Now that bird is a worthwhile
[music] bird."
>> Mhm.
>> [music]
>> Today's [music] episode was produced by
Tina Antalini. It was edited by Wendy
Door. Our field engineer was a fem
[music] Shapiro. And the episode was
mixed by Alyssa Jane Moxley. It was fact
checked by Susan Lee. [music] contains
original music by Daniel Powell and
additional music by Marian Lozano.
Special thanks [music] to Ben Calhoun,
Paige Cowed, Katie Finch, Malia Woolen,
and [music] Phil Taylor.
That's it for the daily. I'm Michael
Mubaro. Happy Thanksgiving and see you
tomorrow. [music]
>> Is this sanitary if I ask to try one of
these?
>> Um, I've got a duck hole you can try.
That is sanitary.
>> Yeah, got it.
No, just just
better.
I want one good call. Just
like not coming. [laughter]
Whatever that is, that's not real.